---
layout: post
title: "Visual perception involves event-type representations: The case of containment versus occlusion"
date: 2016-11-01 13:51:01
category: Event-types in adults
---

# Summary

Authors investigate the possibility of event-type variables in adults, and to what degree these are automatic or intrinsic (i.e., low-level rather than high-level). Interesting, because Jason and we talked about this in regards to "intuitive physics engine".

# Methods

Containment and occlusion events shown using 2D animation. (A mix of 5 events shown together at the same time, though desynchronized). The height or width of the objects would sometimes change while the object was "hidden", and observers were to report any changes they noticed by pressing a key.

Participants were not told about the different event types.

Distributions of height and width changes identical.

During debriefing, participants were asked if they had noticed that their were two different event types, and analyses were only carried out for participants who *failed* to notice the difference. (Why? To limit top-down effects?).

Possible confounding factors accounted for:

1. Color difference for inside vs outside of the container (dark vs light).
2. Timing difference (objects in containment events are invisible for a slighly less time than in occlusion events).
3. Angle differences (last contact edge/surface was obtuse angled for containment and reflex angled for occlusion).


# Takeaways

So skeptical about this, still. 

Maybe it's not event type representations that is guiding attention, but something else?

