---
layout: post
title: "Decoding the future from past experience: learning shapes predictions in early visual cortex"
---

# Summary

Authors find predictive representation in primary visual cortex, V1, for sequence learning tasks with temporal regularities. Interestingly, the predictive coding is done by neurons that also encode physical representation (orientation).

Earlier work focused on finding physical representation for sequence learning, but not how this information could be used for predictions (studies were at most done for anticipation events like reaction time and familiarity).

# Methods

Two type of tasks: prediction (implicit) and control (explicit), plus behavorial training.

In behavorial training, the sequences were structured (with the first position randomized, and the last 3 constant), and the test stimulus was randomized to occur in any of the positions (except the last 3).

In the prediction task, participants were asked to guess the 9th grating after watching a sequence of 8 (for post-training; for pre-training, they were asked if the test stimulus matched what they had predicted).

In the control task, the sequences were randomized (though same frequency for both left and right gratings). After 8 gratings, participants were presented with a cue (L or R), and asked to hold it in mind (for post-training; for pre-training, they were presented with a test stimulus and asked to judge whether cue matched test).

Note, left grating = 135$\degree$ and right grating = 45$\degree$.

#### How focus on temporal regularities, rather than individual positions/gratings, was ensured for participants

- For each sequence of 8 gratings, the first grating was randomized.
- The last 3 gratings were constant across all sequences.
- The frequency of each grating was constant in sequences (4 right and 4 left).
- During debreifing, participants were asked to guess the number of sequences (only 3/12 guessed 4), and in addition, at the end of the last session, were asked to draw a sequence (none of them got it correct). (also, indicator of implicit learning).

#### How predictive coding areas were found

Apparently, you can use MVPA analysis / SVM classfier trained on no-stimulation period (before test stimulus is presented) fMRI responses.


# Takeaways

One possible reason why early visual areas would be good at predictive coding is that they not only have specific orientation preference neurons, but also neurons that look at "collective-structure"(?).

Paper doesn't pick out regions where they *don't* expect to find any activations.

It is possible that the fMRI signals for predictive coding from V1 might be enhanced due to feedback from other regions (like medial temporal lobe). To localize the predective coding search to early visual cortices, fMRI imaging may not be the best thing.


